Mta 4707 (#3300)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/easydeploy-vault/index.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Deploy HashiCorp Vault on Scaleway Kubernetes clusters using Easy Deploy

>   description: Learn how to securely deploy and manage HashiCorp Vault on Scaleway Kubernetes clusters using the Easy Deploy feature. Follow our comprehensive guide for step-by-step instructions.

Author: ```suggestion
  description: Securely deploy and manage HashiCorp Vault on Scaleway Kubernetes clusters with Easy Deploy. Follow our guide for step-by-step instructions.
```

content:
  h1: Deploy HashiCorp Vault on Scaleway Kubernetes clusters using Easy Deploy

>   paragraph: Learn how to securely deploy and manage HashiCorp Vault on Scaleway Kubernetes clusters using the Easy Deploy feature. Follow our comprehensive guide for step-by-step instructions.

Author: ```suggestion
  paragraph: Securely deploy and manage HashiCorp Vault on Scaleway Kubernetes clusters with Easy Deploy. Follow our guide for step-by-step instructions.
```

2. Click the name of the cluster where you wish to deploy Grafana. The **Cluster Information** tab will display.
3. Click the **Easy Deploy** tab. The application dashboard displays.
4. Click **Deploy Application**. The application deployment wizard displays.
5. Choose **Application Library** to see the list of available applications.
6. Select the **Grafana** application.
    <Message type="tip">
        If you cannot find Vault on the first page, use the search bar or navigate through the library.
    </Message>
7. Optionally, customize the default configuration for Grafana using [Helm Charts](/tutorials/kubernetes-package-management-helm/). If you do not require any customized configuration you can skip this step.
8. Enter a name and a Kubernetes namespace for your application. If no name is entered, Grafana will be installed in the default namespace of the cluster.
9. Click **Deploy Application** to deploy Grafana on your Kubernetes cluster.

## Initializing and unsealing Vault

1. Check the status of your Vault using the `kubectl` command.
    ```sh
    kubectl get pods -l app.kubernetes.io/name=vault
    ```
    <Message type="tip">

>       If you choose anothter name for your Vault application ensure to replace the application name with the corresponding value.

Reviewer: Typo

    </Message>

2. Initialize Vault:
    ```sh

>     kubectl exec -it vault-0 -- vault operator init

Reviewer: Consider telling users that "vault-0" corresponds with the app name of this example: user should replace it with their own. I used "application-vault-0" when testing.

    ```
    <Message type="important">
      Save the unseal keys and the initial root token provided by the command.
    </Message>

2. Unseal Vault using three unseal keys retrieved in the previous step:
    ```sh
    kubectl exec -it vault-0 -- vault operator unseal <unseal-key-1>
    kubectl exec -it vault-0 -- vault operator unseal <unseal-key-2>
    kubectl exec -it vault-0 -- vault operator unseal <unseal-key-3>
    ```

3. Login to Vault using the initial root token generated in step two:
    ```sh
    kubectl exec -it vault-0 -- vault login <initial-root-token>
    ```

> 4. Enable the the KV secrets engine at `secret/`:

Reviewer: Repetition "the"

> 4. Enable the the KV secrets engine at `secret/`:

Author: ```suggestion
4. Enable the KV secrets engine at `secret/`:
```

    ```sh
    kubectl exec -it vault-0 -- vault secrets enable -path=secret kv-v2
    ```

## Configure Vault for Kubernetes authentication

1. Enable Kubernetes authentication:
    ```sh
    kubectl exec -it vault-0 -- vault auth enable kubernetes
    ```

2. Configure Vault with the Kubernetes API:
    ```sh

>     kubectl exec -it vault-0 -- sh

Reviewer: consider separating in two commands
one with `kubectl exec -it vault-0 -- sh`
one with what gets inside the shell
simply because in practice, users will command/paste step by step, not all of this chained in one

    vault write auth/kubernetes/config \
        kubernetes_host="https://<KUBERNETES_PORT_443_TCP_ADDR>:443" \
        token_reviewer_jwt="$(cat /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token)" \
        kubernetes_ca_cert="$(cat /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/ca.crt)"
    exit
    ```

>     Replace `<KUBERNETES_PORT_443_TCP_ADDR>` with the IP address of your Vault pod. You can retrieve it using the `kubectl get svc` command.

Reviewer: Which pod? I have 3 svc, don't know which one to select :D 
```
application-vault                
application-vault-agent-injector-svc
application-vault-internal 
```

3. Create a policy:
    ```sh

>     kubectl exec -it vault-0 -- sh

Reviewer: same, I think it's best to first enter the shell, then write the vault policy, not all in one.

Vault is used to secure, store and protect secrets and other sensitive data using a UI, CLI, or HTTP API.

<Macro id="requirements" />
- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- [Owner](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization
- A valid [API key](/identity-and-access-management/iam/how-to/create-api-keys/)
- Created a Scaleway Kubernetes [Kapsule](/containers/kubernetes/how-to/create-cluster/) or [Kosmos](/containers/kubernetes/how-to/create-kosmos-cluster/) cluster

## Deploying the Vault application using Easy Deploy

1. In the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com/), navigate to the **Kubernetes** section under **Containers**.
2. Click the name of the cluster where you wish to deploy Grafana. The **Cluster Information** tab will display.
3. Click the **Easy Deploy** tab. The application dashboard displays.
4. Click **Deploy Application**. The application deployment wizard displays.
5. Choose **Application Library** to see the list of available applications.

> 6. Select the **Grafana** application.

Reviewer 2: Should it be Grafana here?

> 6. Select the **Grafana** application.

Author: ```suggestion
6. Select the **Vault** application.
```

    <Message type="tip">
        If you cannot find Vault on the first page, use the search bar or navigate through the library.
    </Message>

> 7. Optionally, customize the default configuration for Grafana using [Helm Charts](/tutorials/kubernetes-package-management-helm/). If you do not require any customized configuration you can skip this step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Optionally, customize the default configuration for Grafana using [Helm Charts](/tutorials/kubernetes-package-management-helm/). If you do not need any customized configuration you can skip this step.
```

Reviewer 2: Same question, should it be Grafana?

8. Enter a name and a Kubernetes namespace for your application. If no name is entered, Grafana will be installed in the default namespace of the cluster.
9. Click **Deploy Application** to deploy Grafana on your Kubernetes cluster.

## Initializing and unsealing Vault

1. Check the status of your Vault using the `kubectl` command.
    ```sh
    kubectl get pods -l app.kubernetes.io/name=vault
    ```
    <Message type="tip">
      If you choose another name for your Vault application ensure to replace the application name with the corresponding value.
    </Message>

2. Initialize Vault. Replace `vault-0` with the name of your application. If your application is called `vault-application` the value will be `vault-application-0`.
    ```sh
    kubectl exec -it vault-0 -- vault operator init
    ```
    <Message type="important">
      Save the unseal keys and the initial root token provided by the command.
    </Message>

> 2. Unseal Vault using three unseal keys retrieved in the previous step:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Unseal Vault using three unseal keys retrieved in the previous step:
```

    ```sh
    kubectl exec -it vault-0 -- vault operator unseal <unseal-key-1>
    kubectl exec -it vault-0 -- vault operator unseal <unseal-key-2>
    kubectl exec -it vault-0 -- vault operator unseal <unseal-key-3>
    ```

> 3. Login to Vault using the initial root token generated in step two:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Login to Vault using the initial root token generated in step two:
```

    ```sh
    kubectl exec -it vault-0 -- vault login <initial-root-token>
    ```

> 4. Enable the KV secrets engine at `secret/`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Enable the KV secrets engine at `secret/`:
```

        kubernetes_ca_cert="$(cat /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/ca.crt)"
    exit
    ```
    Replace `<KUBERNETES_PORT_443_TCP_ADDR>` with the IP address of your Vault pod. You can retrieve it using the `kubectl get svc` command. The pod name corresponds to your application name (e.g. if your application is called vault-application, the pod name will be `application-vault`).

4. Enter the Vault shell:
    ```sh
    kubectl exec -it vault-0 -- sh
    ```
5. Paste the following configuration to create a policy:
    ```sh
    vault policy write myapp-kv-ro -<<EOF
    path "secret/data/myapp/*" {
      capabilities = ["create", "read", "update", "delete", "list"]
    }
    EOF
    exit
    ```

6. Enter the Vault shell:
    ```sh
    kubectl exec -it vault-0 -- sh
    ```
7. Paste the following configuration to create a role:
    ```sh
    vault write auth/kubernetes/role/myapp \
        bound_service_account_names=myapp-sa \
        bound_service_account_namespaces=default \
        policies=myapp-kv-ro \
        ttl=24h
    exit
    ```

## Storing and retrieving secrets

1. Enter the Vault shell:

>     ```sh
>     kubectl exec -it vault-0 -- sh

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ```sh
    kubectl exec -it vault-0 -- sh
    ```
```

2. Store a secret in Vault:
    ```sh
    vault kv put secret/myapp/config username='myuser' password='mypassword'
    exit
    ```

3. Deploy an application with a service account that has access to the secrets stored in Vault.

>     * Create Service Account:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Create a service account:
```

        ```sh
        kubectl create serviceaccount myapp-sa
        ```

>     * Deploy Your Application:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Deploy your application:
```
